DAL Determination and assignment to functions/items is a process which involves Systems Engineering, Systems Safety and Hardware/Software Engineering processes. Functional requirements are developed by systems engineering (based on the customer requirements and regulatory requirements). These requirements are sent to the System Safety process which are assessed for functional failure through the applicable phases of flight. This process assesses the impact of malfunction or loss of each function, and based on the classification of the effect of the functional failures assign a failure condition and is based on the classification of the effect of the functional failures.  I number of safety objectives are proposed to mitigate these failure conditions, including safety requirements and DALs, which are assigned to the functional requirements. These requirements are passed back to the systems engineering process for design review and allocation to software and hardware. Each software and hardware item is assigned a subset of all the requirements (which are tagged with DALs if applicable). Each software and hardware item is then assigned the highest level DAL in the set of requirements assigned to the item.
This process is iterative and requires collaborative design reviews and consultation between Systems Safety, Systems Engineering, Software Engineering, Hardware Engineering and potentially the Regulator before the set of requirements (with DALs) are assigned to each System, Hardware and Software item. During system and item development there are feedback loops if DAL objectives can not be achieved or functional requirements can not be satisfied and if the design and allocation may need to be reviewed.